.TH DICE 3 "October 10, 2010" "libmormegil Version 1.0" "libmormegil User Manual"
.SH NAME
dice, dice_setstate, dice_getstate \- simulate rolling of arbitrary dice
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stdint.h>

#include <libmormegil/dice.h>

int dice(int count, int sides);

void dice_setstate(const uint32_t *key, const uint32_t *nonce, const uint64_t *counter, const int *subcounter);

void dice_getstate(uint32_t *key, uint32_t *nonce, uint64_t *counter, int *subcounter);

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dice
is a C-compatible wrapper around an instance of the libmormegil::S20prng
pseudorandom number generator.

The \fIdice\fP function simulates rolling \fIcount\fP dice of \fIsides\fP
sides each and summing the result. For example:

.IP "" 8
dice(2, 6)

.PP
rolls two six-sided dice, providing a number between 2 and 12 inclusive.

The \fIdice_setstate\fP function uses the contents of the memory pointed
to by \fIkey\fP, \fInonce\fP, \fIcounter\fP, and \fIsubcounter\fP to
initialize the internal state of the libmormegil::S20prng object used by
the \fIdice\fP function. The data pointed to by these pointers should be
as follows:

.IP "key" 16
An array of eight unsigned 32-bit integers to be used as a Salsa20/12 key.

.IP "nonce" 16
An array of two unsigned 32-bit integers to be used as a Salsa20/12
initialization vector.

.IP "counter" 16
An unsigned 64-bit integer to be used as the starting value of a Salsa20/12
stream offset counter.

.IP "subcounter" 16
An integer between 0 and 15 inclusive, indicating which of the sixteen
32-bit words from the first Salsa20/12 keystream block generated should be
returned by the first call to \fIdice\fP.

.PP
The \fIdice_getstate\fP function performs the opposite role to \fIdice_setstate\fP:
it copies the generator's state into the memory pointed to by the provided
pointers. This allows the generator's state to be (for example) stored in a
saved-game file so that save+restore is a no-op with respect to game
mechanics.

.SH CAVEATS

These functions are not re-entrant or thread-safe. 

The behaviour of \fIdice_setstate\fP and \fIdice_getstate\fP is undefined
if the provided pointers are invalid. Note in particular that passing
invalid pointers to \fIdice_getstate\fP may reasonably be expected to result
in either a fandango on core or (if you're lucky) an immediate segfault.

The behaviour of \fIdice\fP is undefined if:

.IP \(bu 4
The value of \fIsides\fP or \fIcount\fP is negative.

.IP \(bu 4
The product of \fIsides\fP and \fIcount\fP would overflow a signed int.

Extremely large values of \fIsides\fP may cause delays due to the mechanism
used for converting the libmormegil::S20prng output into a number between
0 and (\fIsides\fP - 1).

.SH AUTHOR
Martin Read <mpread@chiark.greenend.org.uk>

.SH SEE ALSO

libmormegil(3), libmormegil::S20prng(3)


