.TH "LIBMORMEGIL::STLPRINTF" 3 "February 25, 2011" "libmormegil Version 1.0" "libmormegil User Manual"
.SH NAME
libmormegil::stlprintf, libmormegil::vstlprintf, libmormegil::stlwprintf, libmormegil::vstlwprintf \- (v)s(w)printf-alikes for std::string
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <string>

#include <stdarg.h>

#include <libmormegil/stlprintf.hh>

\fBstd::string libmormegil::vstlprintf(const char *\fIfmt\fP, va_list \fIargs\fP);\fR

\fBstd::string libmormegil::stlprintf(const char *\fIfmt\fP, ...);\fR

#include <libmormegil/stlwprintf.hh>

\fBstd::wstring libmormegil::vstlwprintf(const char *\fIfmt\fP, va_list \fIargs\fP);\fR

\fBstd::wstring libmormegil::stlwprintf(const char *\fIfmt\fP, ...);\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIlibmormegil::stlprintf\fP and \fIlibmormegil::vstlprintf\fP functions
are equivalent to the standard C library's \fIsprintf\fP and \fIvsprintf\fP
functions, but operate on the standard C++ library's \fIstd::string\fP class
rather than on C-style strings.

The \fIlibmormegil::stlwprintf\fP and \fIlibmormegil::vstlwprintf\fP functions
are equivalent to the standard C library's \fIswprintf\fP and \fIvswprintf\fP
functions, but operate on the standard C++ library's \fIstd::wstring\fP class
rather than on C-style wide strings.

.SH RETURNS
The object returned is a \fIstd::string\fP or \fIstd::wstring\fP containing
the formatted output.

.SH CAVEATS
These functions are wrapped around your system's local implementation of
vsprintf or vswprintf.  All bugs, health hazards, and other concerns which
apply to those functions apply to these functions as well.

.SH AUTHOR
The vstlprintf and stlprintf functions were written by Stefan O'Rear.

Amendments were made by Martin Read in order to fit into libmormegil.

The vstlwprintf and stlwprintf functions were cloned by Martin Read from
the narrow versions as part of the libmormegil project.

.SH SEE ALSO
libmormegil(3), vsprintf(3), vswprintf(3)
