.TH "LIBMORMEGIL::POINTS" 3 "April 7, 2011" "libmormegil Version 1.0" "libmormegil User Manual"
.SH NAME
libmormegil::Points \- tracker object for hit points or similar
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libmormegil/Points.hh>

int32_t libmormegil::Points::gain(int32_t amount, libmormegil::Points::Gain_mode mode);

int32_t libmormegil::Points::lose(int32_t amount);

int32_t libmormegil::Points::boost(int32_t amount);

int32_t libmormegil::Points::restore(int32_t amount);

int32_t libmormegil::Points::current() const;

int32_t libmormegil::Points::maximum() const;

void libmormegil::Points::force_current(int32_t c);

void libmormegil::Points::force_maximum(int32_t m);

void libmormegil::Points::Points(int32_t mv = 0, int32_t c = 0);

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I libmormegil::Points
is a class for tracking quantities like "hit points" in a game.

The \fIgain\fP member function increases the maximum value by \fIamount\fP
(but not above 2^31-1), and adjusts the current value according to the mode
selected by \fImode\fP.  The valid values for \fImode\fP are \fIGain_match\fP
(current value increases by the same amount as the maximum),
.I Gain_proportional
(current value increases in proportion to the increase in the maximum), and
.I Gain_norestore
(current value does not change). The return value is the actual change in
the maximum value.

The \fIlose\fP member function reduces the current value by \fIamount\fP, but
not below zero. It returns a positive integer with magnitude equal to that of
the change in the current value.

The \fIrestore\fP member function increases the current value by \fIamount\fP
but not above the maximum value. It returns the actual change in the current
value.

The \fIboost\fP member function increases the current value by \fIamount\fP
but not above 2^31-1. It returns the actual change in the current value.

The \fIcurrent\fP and \fImaximum\fP member functions return the current and
maximum values, respectively.

The \fIforce_current\fP and \fIforce_maximum\fP set the current and maximum
value, respectively.

.SH AUTHOR
Martin Read <mpread@chiark.greenend.org.uk>

.SH SEE ALSO

libmormegil(3)
