.TH "LIBMORMEGIL::COORD" 3 "October 10, 2010" "libmormegil Version 1.0" "libmormegil User Manual"
.SH NAME
libmormegil::basic_offset, libmormegil::basic_coord, libmormegil::Coord, libmormegil::Offset, libmormegil::Coord64, libmormegil::Offset64 \- offsets and points on a plane
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libmormegil/Coord.hh>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I libmormegil::basic_offset
is a template type for representing vectors on a two-dimensional plane. These
can be added, subtracted, etc.

The member functions \fIlength_taxi\fP and \fIlength_inf\fP return the
magnitude of the vector under the L_1 (aka "Manhattan" or "taxicab") and L_inf
(aka "Chebyshev" or "chessboard") metrics, respectively.  The member
function \fIlengthsq\fP returns the square of the magnitude of the vector
under the Euclidean metric.

.I libmormegil::basic_coord
is a template type for representing points on a two-dimensional plane. They
cannot be added together, and the result of subtracting one from another is
an object of corresponding basic_offset type. Addition or subtraction of a
basic_offset to/from a basic_coord yields another basic_coord. 

The member functions \fIdist_taxi\fP and \fIdist_inf\fP return the distance
between two points under the L_1 and L_inf metrics, respectively.

The member function \fIdistsq\fP returns the square of the distance between
the two points under the Euclidean metric.

The member functions \fIsize_taxi\fP and \fIsize_inf\fP return the distance
of a point from the origin under the L_1 and L_inf metrics, respectively.

The member function \fIsizesq\fP returns the square of the distance of a
point from the origin under the Euclidean metric.

Typedefs \fIlibmormegil::Coord\fR and \fIlibmormegil::Offset\fR are provided
which use type \fIint32_t\fR as the template parameter.

Typedefs \fIlibmormegil::Coord64\fR and \fIlibmormegil::Offset64\fR are provided
which use type \fIint64_t\fR as the template parameter.

.SH AUTHOR
Martin Read <mpread@chiark.greenend.org.uk>

.SH SEE ALSO

libmormegil(3)
