libmormegil is a collection of library functions and C++ classes intended for
use in various projects that I host on github under the name fluffymormegil.

The header files describing the APIs of libmormegil are generally distributed
under the terms of the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication (cc-0). Where
a libmormegil API's implementation involves separate source code, the source
code for that implementation is distributed under a Berkeley-style licence
(permissive copyright).

== INSTALLATION ==

If you want to set up a system-wide installation,

        ./configure && make all && sudo make install

should do the trick. If it doesn't, let me know what platform you're on and
how to fix the issue.

== ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ==

The Salsa20 stream cipher was invented by Daniel J. Bernstein; the
implementation used in the libmormegil::S20prng C++ class is based on DJB's
public domain reference implementation. If you want to use it for any
application involving ''actual cryptography'', please go directly to his
website rather than trusting my transcription of his algorithms.

(For that matter, you shouldn't even trust Dan Bernstein's original
implementations without auditing them yourself.)

== VERSION NUMBERING  ==
libmormegil's version number uses the format x.y.z with the following
meanings:

* X is the major version; this is presented as part of the shared library's
  soname, and provides guarantees about API/ABI compatibility.

* Y is the minor version.

* Z if the backwards-compatibility count.

If you want the official version of libmormegil to use ELF symbol versioning,
ask nicely and offer to pay me consultancy rates. (I will probably still say
"no".)

== DEFINITION OF A BUG ==

If the library does something contrary to what the documentation states, that
is effectively two bugs. The fix, however, may only change one of the two.

If a man page documents something that does not exist, that is effectively two
bugs. The fix will be either "implement the described thing" or "delete the
offending documentation until the thing is implemented".

== CONTRIBUTION POLICY ==

Copyright assignment is neither required nor desired.

Contributions are accepted only under the same licensing terms as the existing
code - cc-0 for header files, BSD licence for code.

== DO NOT REQUEST ==

=== Things not to submit ===

* Patches that cause the library build to depend on the use of recursive make.
  '''Everything''' in libmormegil proper must be buildable by a non-recursive
  invocation of ''make all'' in the top-level directory.

* Patches that depend on GNU autotools (or similar).

* Patches whose contents are subject to a propagating licence (e.g. GNU GPL).

* Patches in respect of whose contents you hold a relevant patent, unless you
  are willing to grant a universal royalty-free licence on that patent to all
  persons everywhere.

=== Things not to request ===

Items on this list will not be done by me. Feel free to submit patches to
provide them, on the understanding that if they break, I'm not likely to bother
fixing them:

* Support for Your Favourite GUI IDE

* Support for Your Favorite Non-GNU Toolchain

* Support for Your Favorite Operating System

